# This file is a part of qemuconf.
# See COPYING and COPYRIGHT files for corresponding information.

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

qemuconf - simple qemu launcher with config file support

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<qemuconf> [B<-q> I<EXEC>] I<CONFIG> [-- QEMU ARGS ...]

B<qemuconf> [B<-n>] I<CONFIG>

B<qemuconf> [B<-V>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<qemuconf> executes L<qemu(1)> with arguments compiled from a
configuration file.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 8

=item B<-q> I<EXEC>

Set the default L<qemu(1)> binary.  This option may be overwritten by
the I<binary> option in the configuration file.

=item B<-n> I<CONFIG>

Print the produced argument list to stdout, instead of executing.
Useful for diagnostic purposes.

=item B<-v>

Print version and exit.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

  #
  # /etc/qemuconf.d/generic.conf: configuration file for qemuconf(1)
  #
  # See qemuconf(1) for more information.
  #

  binary /usr/bin/qemu-system-x86_64
  cwd    /var/qemu/generic
  smp    2
  m      1024
  enable-kvm
  drive:
    if      virtio
    file    hda.img
  net nic:
    vlan    0
    model   virtio
    macaddr 82:82:9D:AF:F0:1C
  net user:
    vlan    0
  vnc 127.0.0.1:1

  # End of file.

This configuration file will execute the following command:

  /usr/bin/qemu-system-x86_64 -smp 2 -m 1024 -enable-kvm \
    -drive if=virtio,file=hda.img \
    -net nic,vlan=0,model=virtio,macaddr=82:82:9D:AF:F0:1C \
    -net user,vlan=0 -vnc 127.0.0.1:1

The C<cwd> option instructs B<qemuconf> to L<chdir(2)> into
F</var/qemu/qeneric> before executing a L<qemu(1)> instance.

=head1 AUTHORS

Enno Boland <eb@s01.de>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<qemuconf-import(1)>, L<qemu(1)>

=cut

# vim:sw=2:ts=2:sts=2:et:cc=72:tw=70
# End of file.
